Dec 5
Paige North

Coinductive control of inductive data types
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8nGTQZy37Q0
North
In classical programming language theory, characterizing data types as initial algebras of an endofunctor that represents a specification of the data types is an important tool. In this work, we observe that the category of algebras of such an endofunctor is often enriched in its category of coalgebras. This enrichment carries strictly more information than the traditional, unenriched category. For example, when considering the endofunctor whose initial algebra is the natural numbers, we find that the enrichment encodes a notion of `partial' homomorphism, while the unenriched category encodes only `total' homomorphisms. We can also leverage this extra information to generalize the notion of initial algebras, following the theory of weighted limits. This is joint work with Maximilien Péroux and Lukas Mulder.

Nov 21
Niels van der Weide

The internal languages of univalent categories
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yk09KrBNUt4
Weide
Internal language theorems are fundamental in categorical logic, since they express an equivalence between syntax and semantics. One of such theorems was proven by Clairambault and Dybjer, who corrected the result originally by Seely. More specifically, they constructed a biequivalence between the bicategory of locally Cartesian closed categories and the bicategory of democratic categories with families with extensional identity types, ∑-types, and ∏-types. This theorem expresses that, up to adjoint equivalence, the internal language of locally Cartesian closed categories is extensional Martin-Löf type theory with dependent sums and products.
In this talk, we prove the theorem by Clairambault and Dybjer for univalent categories, and we extend their biequivalence to various classes of toposes, among which are ∏-pretoposes and elementary toposes. Univalent categories give an interesting framework for studying internal language theorems of dependent type theory. This is because of the fact that univalent categories are identified up to adjoint equivalence, and that internal language theorems give us biequivalence for various classes of categories and theories. In addition, we shall see that univalence gives us several ways to simplify the necessary constructions and proofs, because it allows us to transfer properties and structure along equivalences for free. 
The results in this paper have been formalized using the proof assistant Coq and the UniMath library. The material in this talk is based on the preprint #https://arxiv.org/abs/2411#.06636.

Nov 7
Tashi Walde

An axiomatization of synthetic category theory
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fiKKDu2b22o
Walde
We propose an axiomatization of synthetic categories that allows to develop most of (infinity-)category theory from first principles, without relying on explicit set-theoretic models.
We expect that such a synthetic theory can make it easier to practice (infinity-)category theory for non-experts and teach it to beginners; moreover, it lends itself to formalization in proof assistants.
This talk is based on an ongoing long-term project with D.-C. Cisinski, B. Cnossen and K. Nguyen.

Oct 24
Max Zeuner

Univalent foundations of constructive algebraic geometry
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DJNisW5m1BA
Zeuner
HoTT/UF aims not only to be framework for synthetic homotopy theory, but also a suitable foundation for "set-level" constructive mathematics. In this talk we want to support this claim by discussing how the basic theory of schemes, the fundamental notion of modern algebraic geometry, can be set up in HoTT/UF. The classical literature contains two different approaches to schemes: schemes as locally ringed spaces and schemes as functors. We will show how both of these can be made constructive and predicative and discuss what kind of issues arise when defining qcqs-schemes using either approach in HoTT/UF. Finally, we give a sketch of a univalent proof that the two constructive definitions coincide.

Oct 10
Floris van Doorn

Formalizing a proof of Carleson's theorem
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vMEGU8fL1xM
van-Doorn
A fundamental question in Fourier analysis is the Fourier inversion theorem, which states that for nice functions, applying the Fourier transform twice gives the original function back up to reversal. This is true for continuously differentiable functions, but the situation is a lot more subtle for e.g. continuous functions. In this case the Fourier transform might not be integrable, and one has to consider improper integrals. Moreover, this improper integral need not converge at every point, but in 1966 Lennart Carleson proved that it does converge at almost all points for functions on the real line. This result follows from the boundedness of the Carleson operator. Carleson's proof is famously hard to read, and there are no known easy proofs of this theorem.
We have proven a generalization of the boundedness of the Carleson's operator in the setting of doubling metric measure spaces, and we are currently working on formalizing the entire proof in the proof assistant Lean, based on a detailed blueprint we wrote first. This advanced formalization is possible because of Lean's large mathematical library Mathlib.
In this talk I will give an overview of the project including its practical aspects, as well as highlighting some other exciting projects around Mathlib. No background in Fourier analysis is assumed.
This is joint work with Lars Becker, Leo Diedering, Asgar Jamneshan, Rajula Srivastava, Jeremy Tan, Christoph Thiele and others.

Sept 26
Reid Barton

Directed aspects of condensed type theory
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0elJcaw5NWw
Barton
Condensed mathematics is a recently-introduced setting for applying methods of higher category theory to objects of topological nature. The category Cond of condensed sets can be viewed as an approximation of the category of topological spaces by a topos. We identify two classes of maps of Cond, that we call "etale" and "proper", that correspond to local homeomorphisms and to proper maps of topological spaces respectively, and we propose type-theoretic axioms concerning these that express the sense in which Cond is a "category of spaces", and not only a "category of sets".
The focus of this talk will be on the "directed path types" of a condensed set (or groupoid), which correspond to the specialization order on the points of a topological space, and are defined using the Sierpinski condensed set as "directed interval". Etale and proper maps have unique lifting properties with respect to the two endpoints of this interval, and so are analogous to left and right fibrations of simplicial spaces. The aim of the talk is to explain this (imperfect) analogy from both an external and an internal perspective, to try to shed light on possible relationships with recent and current work in simplicial and directed type theories.
This talk is based on joint work with Johan Commelin.